docs(tproxy): restructure and expand transparent proxy documentation (#2064)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/networking/transparent-proxy/reachable-backends.md

---
title: Reachable Backends
content_type: how-to
---

{% assign docs = "/docs/" | append: page.release %}
{% assign Kuma = site.mesh_product_name %}
{% assign tproxy = site.data.tproxy %}

{% warning %}
This feature works only when [MeshService]({{ docs }}/networking/meshservice) is enabled.
{% endwarning %}

> Reachable Backends provides similar functionality to [Reachable Services]({{ docs }}/networking/transparent-proxy/reachable-services/), but it applies to resources such as [MeshService]({{ docs }}/networking/meshservice), [MeshExternalService]({{ docs }}/networking/meshexternalservice), and [MeshMultiZoneService]({{ docs }}/networking/meshmultizoneservice).

Reviewer: I think here your doc is biased towards warnings in the newer stuff. I think it should be the other way round or 2 way

Author: I didn't write this warning, it was already there when I moved this doc under the transparent proxy section. MeshServices are still not enabled by default, so I think the warning should stay though.

> By default, each data plane proxy tracks all other data planes in the mesh, which can impact performance and use more resources. Configuring `reachableBackends` allows you to specify only the services your application actually needs to communicate with, improving efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, each data plane proxy can access all other services in the mesh. This impacts performance and  resources consumption. With `reachableBackends` you specify a subset of service services your application communicates with, which enables {{ Kuma }} to trim the configuration and be more efficient.
```

Author: addressed

Unlike Reachable Services, Reachable Backends uses a structured model to define the resources.

### Model

- **refs**: Lists the resources your application needs to connect with, including:
  - **kind**: Type of resource. Options include:
    - **MeshService**
    - **MeshExternalService**
    - **MeshMultiZoneService**
  - **name**: Name of the resource.

>   - **namespace**: (Kubernetes only) Namespace where the resource is located. Required if using `namespace`.

Reviewer: I don't get this. namespace is required when using namespace?

>   - **labels**: A list of labels to match resources. You can define either `labels` or `name`.

Reviewer: It's worth mentioning here that when we use this it matches ALL the workloads that have these labels. I think that's how reachableBackends is so much better than reachableServices

Author: addressed

  - **port**: (Optional) Port for the service, used with `MeshService` and `MeshMultiZoneService`.

{% tabs reachable-backends-model useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab reachable-backends-model Kubernetes %}
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Pod
metadata:

>   name: demo-client

Author: addressed

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: demo-app
  namespace: kuma-demo
  annotations:
    kuma.io/reachable-backends: |
      refs:
      - kind: MeshService
        name: redis
        namespace: kuma-demo
        port: 6379
...
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab reachable-backends Universal %}
```yaml
type: Dataplane
mesh: default
name: {% raw %}{{ name }}{% endraw %}
networking:
  address: {% raw %}{{ address }}{% endraw %}
  inbound:
  - port: {% raw %}{{ port }}{% endraw %}
    tags:
      kuma.io/service: demo-app
  transparentProxying:
    redirectPortInbound: {{ tproxy.defaults.redirect.inbound.port }}
    redirectPortOutbound: {{ tproxy.defaults.redirect.outbound.port }}
    reachableBackends:
      refs:
      - kind: MeshService
        name: redis
        port: 6379
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

<!-- vale Google.Headings = NO -->
#### `demo-app` doesn’t need to communicate with any service
<!-- vale Google.Headings = YES -->

{% tabs reachable-backends-no-services useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab reachable-backends-no-services Kubernetes %}
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: demo-app
  namespace: kuma-demo
  annotations:

>     kuma.io/reachable-backends: ""

Reviewer: Would it be easier to understand with `refs: []` ?

Author: addressed

...
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab reachable-backends-no-services Universal %}
```yaml
type: Dataplane
mesh: default
name: {% raw %}{{ name }}{% endraw %}
networking:
  address: {% raw %}{{ address }}{% endraw %}
  inbound:
    - port: {% raw %}{{ port }}{% endraw %}
      tags:
        kuma.io/service: demo-app
  transparentProxying:
    redirectPortInbound: {{ tproxy.defaults.redirect.inbound.port }}
    redirectPortOutbound: {{ tproxy.defaults.redirect.outbound.port }}
    reachableBackends: {}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

<!-- vale Google.Headings = NO -->
#### `demo-app` communicates with all MeshServices in the `kuma-demo` namespace
<!-- vale Google.Headings = YES -->

{% tabs reachable-backends-in-namespace useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab reachable-backends-in-namespace Kubernetes %}
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: demo-app
  namespace: kuma-demo
  annotations:
    kuma.io/reachable-backends: |
      refs:
      - kind: MeshService
        labels:

>           k8s.kuma.io/namespace: kuma-demo

Reviewer: There can be a universal equivalent to this right?

A universal workload that only talks to stuff in a kuberenetes namespace (in another zone)

Author: addressed
